Final Project

Overview: The final project should be compiled from all of your homework assignments throughout the semester for your microbiome project. This write-up should be a self-contained representation of your entire project. Importantly, the final project should represent your best work and should be revised according to the feedback you were given on each homework assignment. The final project should be cohesive. For example, the Materials and Methods for each assignment should be in sub-sections in the larger Materials and Methods section. Also, be sure to organize your material logically, according to the timeline we analyzed the data.

Sections of the Final Project (in the order they should appear):
Title
Abstract
Introduction
Materials and Methods
Results
Discussion
Tables
Figures
Supplemental Material (if needed).
References

Title: The title identifies the important contents of the paper and orients the reader by specifying the writer’s main findings or perspective.

Abstract: The abstract is a short passage (250 words or less) that summarizes the main elements of the paper.

Introduction: The introduction sets the stage for your scientific argument. It places your work in a broad theoretical context and gives the reader enough information to appreciate the objectives of the study.

Materials and Methods: M&M provides the context for evaluating data. How did you obtain the data, what tools and parameters were used, what protocols did you use (@protocols.io, reference these). What would another scientist need to know to reproduce your work?

Results: The results section should (1) summarize the data emphasizing the important trends or patterns, and (2) illustrate and support your generalizations with explanatory details, Tables, or Figures. Do not interpret the data or draw major conclusions, save that for the discussion. Integrate quantitative data with the text and refer back to relevant Tables or Figures. Do not just repeat data that is already included in a Table or Figure. Instead, point out important information or patterns that you want to draw attention to. Do not clutter the Results (or any other section) with peripheral information and unnecessary details. For example, “To present the results of this study, I will first examine all of the data related to taxonomy”.  

Discussion: In the results section you reported your findings; now, in the discussion you need to tell the reader what the findings mean. Do the data support your original hypothesis? Why or why not? Refer to figures or tables where necessary, but without reporting the data already in the results. Are your findings consistent with those reported from other researchers? How do your results fit into the bigger picture?

Tables: All Tables should be cited throughout the text, and numbered consecutively.  Be sure to include a title for the Table and a short description. The Table should be understandable on its own, and often present data that have many numerical values. The Tables should appear after the Discussion in a section called “Tables”.

Figures. All Figures should be cited throughout the text and numbered consecutively.  Be sure to include a title for the Figure and a short legend. The Figure should be understandable on its own, and often present data that are graphical or illustrate an important point or pattern. The Figures should appear after the Tables in a section called “Figures”.  

References: References are cited in the text, and presented in a consistent format in the “References” section.
